# face_identification
The task at hand was to train a model that given two images could tell if they belonged to the same person or not. For this, I explored multiple architectures and design ideas and in the end, I settled for a Unet architecture with a 512 bottleneck and a triplet loss function.

The triplet loss function takes in three inputs, one of the anchor image, one of the true image and one of the false image. What the loss function aims to do is to place more importance on making the model learn more about the image that is closer to the anchor image, which is the positive image. Choosing this loss function meant that the embeddings generated by the model were more in tune for differentiating between the two images (true and false).

The dataset at hand was also an interesting one. There were 10000 folders and each folder had 20 images in them. Looking at the dataset, treating it as a classification problem could have worked, but creating a model for 10000 classes seemed excessive and redundant, especially considering that we had to predict a probability score of the two images being of the same person. So, random anchor and false images were selected from the dataset, with the intuition that this will help the model train with more diverse images and it will learn to diffrentiate much better. 

The three images were passed as different inputs to the model, with the weights of the model shared between the inputs were all the same. In the end, the embdeddings generated by the three inputs were concatenated and then sent to the loss function. 
